---
description: The player class that is usually controlled by the user.
---

# 1. Player

## 1. The Player Class

### 1.1 Player Initialization

For every project, there should only be one player class. The player class is the main class that the user controls. This class is the object that contains the users inventory, equipped weapons and shield, as well as attack enemies and interacts with NPCs. Setting up a player class goes as follows: 

You must supply 5 arguments when creating an instance of the player class:

*  `name`
  * Name of the player
* `hp`
  * Current HP, usually set to the same value of the `maxhp` \(for debug purposes\)
* `maxhp`
  * Maximum amount of HP \(Health Points\)
* `minatk`
  * Player's minimum attack damage
* `maxatk`
  * Player's maximum attack damage

#### Create a player like this:

```python
player = TARBSengine.Player("Steve", 20, 20, 10, 5)
```

### 

### 1.2 Player.editinv

#### Player.editinv\(item, amnt\)

Add new items to the players inventory and change amount of items that already exist in the players inventory. If debugging is enabled, \(learn how to enable debugging here\), outputs the item give and the amount.

Required arguments:

* `item`
  * The item to give the player
* `amnt`
  * The amount of items to add to the players inventory.

{% hint style="warning" %}
The item argument must be a class instance.
{% endhint %}

#### Add an item to the players inventory like this:

```python
player.editinv(sword, 1)
## Debugger: item given 2 x 1
```

#### Edit the amount of items that are already in the players inventory: 

```python
player.editinv(sword, 2)
## Debugger: item given sword x 2
## This will set the number of swords that the player has to 2 
## regardless of how many they currently have in their inventory.
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Changing the amount of items a player has will have its own function in Beta 1.0
{% endhint %}

### 1.3 Player.removeitem

#### Player.removeitem\(item\)

Completely removes item from the players inventory. Doesn't set the amount of the item to 0, completely deletes it from the `Player.inv` dict. As of now, needs to be used in conjunction with `Player.editinv()` once the item amount reaches 0. 

{% hint style="info" %}
Completely deleting an item from the players inventory automatically when using `Player.editinv()` is a feature that will be expected to release in Beta 1.0, possibly earlier. 

\(`removeitem()` may be re-named to `deleteitem()` in the near future\)
{% endhint %}

#### Player.removeitem\(\) usage example:

```python
player.removeitem(sword)
## Debugger: removed sword from player
```



### 1.4 Player.atk

#### Player.atk\(opponent\)

Preform a basic attack on the opponent. Attack automatically factors in the extra damage from the current weapon the player is holding. If debugging is enabled, the function outputs the total damage done and how much HP the opponent has left. Function will also automatically delete the instance of opponent if the opponent HP reaches 0. \(This feature is subject to change and mostly for debugging purposes at the moment.\)

{% hint style="warning" %}
The opponent argument must be a class instance
{% endhint %}

#### Usage example:

```python
player.atk(zombie)
## Damage done: 7
## Enemy HP: 13
```



### 1.5 Player.equipweapon

#### Player.equipweapon\(weapon\)

Adds the weapon to the `Player.weapon_one`  var. The name of the weapon can also be referenced by referring to `Weapon.name`  for dialogue when equipping the weapon. When equipping the weapon, the `Weapon.atk` var is also stored in the `Player.weapon_one_atk` for adding the amount of extra damage that the weapon provides when calling `Player.atk()`.

{% hint style="warning" %}
The weapon argument must be a class instance.
{% endhint %}

#### Usage:

```python
player.equipweapon(sword)
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Debug output for Player.equipweapon is expected to be added in Alpha version 0.2.0
{% endhint %}

